# Scrapy PoC for Plural Open Scrapers

Proof of Concept for using Scrapy to write and execute scrapers that obtain open civic data.

## Try it

* Install the necessary version of python using `pyenv`
* If necessary, `pip install poetry`
* `poetry install`

You should now have the `scrapy` tool installed in your poetry environment.

**Warning**: currently something is wrong with the project structure, trying to import from the `core` package from
a scraper a couple layers deep in the `scrapers` package. I can only run this with a modification to
PYTHONPATH (which PyCharm adds by default, running in PyCharm is fine). How to set PYTHONPATH if you want to just run
this in a terminal:

* Find the path to your Poetry environment folder: `poetry env info`
* Set PYTHONPATH to include both the root folder of this repo and the `site-packages` folder of the poetry env:
  `export PYTHONPATH='/home/jesse/repo/openstates/scrapy-test:/home/jesse/.cache/pypoetry/virtualenvs/scrapy-test-vH1KNbGC-py3.9/lib/python3.9/site-packages`
    * You will need to change the paths in the command above to match those on your machine.

### Run a scout scrape

`python -m scrapy.cmdline crawl nv-bills -a session=2023Special35 -O nv-bills-scout.json -s "ITEM_PIPELINES={}"`

* This command disables the `DropStubsPipeline` (`ITEM_PIPELINES={}`), which by default drops stub entities
* Results are output to `nv-bills-scout.json`

### Run a full scrape

`python -m scrapy.cmdline crawl nv-bills -a session=2023Special35 -O nv-bills.json -s "DOWNLOADER_MIDDLEWARES={}"`

* This command disables the `ScoutOnlyDownloaderMiddleware` (`DOWNLOADER_MIDDLEWARES={}`), which by default ignores
  requests that are not marked `is_scout` in the `meta` property of the request.
* Results are output to `nv-bills.json`
* Please note that the scraper is not fully ported over yet, so there is still missing data.

## Context

### Prior art

John did a scrapy PoC in the (
private) [Plural Engineering Experiments repo](https://github.com/civic-eagle/data-engineering-experiements/tree/main/scrapy-test)

### Why Scrapy?

* Very popular: easy to find developers who are familiar
* Very mature: battle-tested layers of abstraction, flexibility to meet our goals
* Reduce overall surface area of "in-house" code we need to maintain

### Criteria

One way to think of success for this project: can it achieve most or all of the goals of the spatula project, without
requiring much custom code?

* Can we run a scout scrape that returns basic info on entities without making the extra requests required for
  retrieving full info on entities?
* Can we run a normal scrape that does not output the partial/stub info generated by scout code?
* Are there barriers involved in using necessary elements of `openstates-core` code here? For instance we want to be
  able to easily port code, and continue to use the core entity models w/ helper functions etc.
* Can the scraper output an equivalent directory of json files that can be compared 1:1 to an existing scraper?

## Technical notes

### Porting existing Open States scrapers

We have a repository of existing open data scrapers
in [openstates-scrapers](https://github.com/openstates/openstates-scrapers).
These form the baseline of quality and expected output for scrapers in this test repository.

Those scrapers rely on some shared code from a PyPi package called `openstates`, the code for
which [is found here](https://github.com/openstates/openstates-core).
There is currently a barrier to adding that shared code to this repo (see Problems below), so some of that shared code
is temporarily copied into this repo.

Some technical notes regarding porting code:

* All the scrapers in the `scrapers_next` folder use the [spatula](https://github.com/jamesturk/spatula) scraper
  framework. A few of the ones in the `scrapers` folder do as well (see `nv/bills.py`). But most of the scrapers in the
  `scrapers` folder use an older framework called [scrapelib](https://github.com/jamesturk/scrapelib).
* There are often multiple requests needed to compile enough data to fully represent a Bill, so these sequences of
  requests and parsing can end up looking like long procedures (scrapelib) or nested abstractions where it's not clear
  how they are tied together (spatula). In scrapy, we should handle this by yielding Requests that pass along the
  partial entity using `cb_kwargs`.
    * In spatula, you'll see a pattern where subsequent parsing functions access `self.input` to access that partial
      data. In scrapy, passed-down partial data is available as a named kwarg, such as `bill` or `bill_stub`.
* Fundamentally, the CSS and Xpath selectors remain the same, just some of the syntax around them changes:
    * `doc.xpath()` or `self.root.xpath()` becomes `response.xpath()`
    * `CSS("#title").match_one(self.root).text` becomes ` response.css("#title::text").get()`

#### Evaluating whether the port is a success

The scrapy-based scrapers need to perform at least as well as the equivalent scraper in that repo.

The most important expectation to meet is that the new scraper must be at least as information-complete and accurate as
the old scraper. Is the output the same (or better)?

Old Open States scrapers will output a JSON file for each scraped item to a local directory: `./_data`:

```shell
jesse@greenbookwork:~/repo/openstates/openstates-scrapers/scrapers/_data$ cd nv
jesse@greenbookwork:~/repo/openstates/openstates-scrapers/scrapers/_data/nv$ ls -alh
total 56K
drwxrwxr-x 2 jesse jesse 4.0K Nov  6 18:29 .
drwxrwxr-x 6 jesse jesse 4.0K Nov  5 19:36 ..
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse 2.1K Nov  6 18:28 bill_9f6f717c-7d04-11ee-aeef-01ae5adc5576.json
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse 2.1K Nov  6 18:28 bill_a2526bec-7d04-11ee-aeef-01ae5adc5576.json
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse  13K Nov  6 18:29 bill_a54dad84-7d04-11ee-aeef-01ae5adc5576.json
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse 1.9K Nov  6 18:29 bill_a8d58f30-7d04-11ee-aeef-01ae5adc5576.json
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse 2.1K Nov  6 18:29 bill_abc9288c-7d04-11ee-aeef-01ae5adc5576.json
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse 3.8K Nov  6 18:28 jurisdiction_ocd-jurisdiction-country:us-state:nv-government.json
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse  171 Nov  6 18:28 organization_9dac2f10-7d04-11ee-aeef-01ae5adc5576.json
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse  187 Nov  6 18:28 organization_9dac2f11-7d04-11ee-aeef-01ae5adc5576.json
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jesse jesse  189 Nov  6 18:28 organization_9dac2f12-7d04-11ee-aeef-01ae5adc5576.json
```

The above output was created by running the following command from within the `scrapers` subdirectory:

`poetry run python -m openstates.cli.update --scrape nv bills session=2023Special35`

(Nevada session `2023Special35` is a nice example because it is quick: only 5 bills.)

We can compare this output to the `nv-bills.json` output mentioned above.

### Problems

* The `spatula` library specifies an older version of the `attrs` package as a dependency. `scrapy` also has `attrs` as
  a dependency. These versions conflict. And since `openstates` has `spatula` as a dependency, we currently cannot
  add `openstates` as a dependency to this project! To try to quickly work around this, I copied a bunch of library code
  out of the `openstates-core` repo and into the `core` package within this repo. This is a very temporary solution.
* Scraper is not fully ported

### Useful concepts

* Pass input properties from the comamnd line to the scraper using the `-a` flag, ie `-a session=2023Special35`. This
  allows us to copy `os-update` behavior where we can pass in runtime parameters to the scraper.
* Override scrapy settings at runtime with the `-s` flag. This allows us to set things like which Item pipelines and
  middleware is enabled at runtime. This allows us to switch the behavior between scout/normal scrape at runtime.
* Item pipelines do things with items returned by scrapers. Using this to drop "stub" items when in normal scrape mode.
* Downloader middleware allows us to change behavior of a Request before it is made. Currently requiring the scraper to
  mark `is_scout: True` on the `meta` property of the Request, so that we can ignore non-scout requests when desired.